Salam alaikum my name is disparage essa
and welcome to my world
join me on a brand-new season of iftar
I'm going to take you on a culinary
journey across the globe
be simple easy and healthy recipes we'll
be sure to bring a variety of different
and popular flavors into your home
we will also be exploring beneficial
health tips along the way and ATS the
hard time best to have slow energy
releasing foods things like oats
so get your apron on and let's get
cooking
Salam alaikum welcome to F star on our
vape TV with me your host the sphere
Jessa so the last episode that we were
we were together we'd go into Mexico for
this one I thought we'd do another long
journey and we're going to go across to
about to Lebanon because I thought my
head Ramzan and a lot of us enjoy we try
and stay away from the fried food but we
like our budges or our falafels the
crispy texture so this year I thought
let's do a baked version something a
little bit healthier for that we're
going to be using team chickpeas but
again if you've got the dry ones we'll
soak them overnight but in the morning
boil them with some salt and some baking
soda as well actually you can even put
the baking soda in when you soak them
overnight just makes them a little bit
soft softer so for that we're going to
have use chickpeas fresh parsley and
some spices garlic and lemon juice so
let's get started shall we
so in the bowl here we have a big bunch
of parsley and we'll just chop it down
to that we're going to add our bowl of
chickpeas so a couple of tunes - 2 large
cloves of garlic grated the juice of one
lemon and for our spices we have some
red chili powder some cumin and black
pepper that will just give our falafels
lots and lots of flavor and last but not
least our salt I think we need to use a
good serving of salt in this because the
chickpeas are quite bland need a lot to
help them develop the flavor put the lid
back on
when you do this you want to pulse it as
opposed to leaving it on just one number
because otherwise it will grind it to a
very fine paste or you want this to be a
little bit chunky
that's quite nice now to this I'm going
to add in about half a cup of oat flour
all this is is porridge oats that I've
grinded down to a flour now that will
just help make this dough a bit the
mixture a bit pliable when it comes to
forming the falafel super healthy
alternative to fried kabobs all right
that looks quite stiff so when you add
in your flour add it in slowly what
we'll do is we'll put this on a greased
tray and we'll form them into patties
and leave them in the fridge for about
15 minutes just to firm up and then
we'll cook them in the griddle before we
bake them so again just depending on the
size you want you could actually for
vegetarians this would make a good
burger
just like that keep doing this till
you've completed using well since till
you've used up all your mixture okay now
that the patties will are all done we'll
put them in the refrigerator for about
15 minutes just to firm up a bit so we
can pan fry them and then put them in
the oven to bake while that's in the
fridge we're going to make some homeless
because yesterday my a CEO called me up
and said mom can you please bring some
homeless on your way home I couldn't
believe she said that to me she had the
audacity to say it to me because
homeless takes no more than five minutes
to make start to finish and I'm going to
prove that to you just now remember I
promised to show you how easy it is to
knock up a bowl full of homeless it's
probably quicker for you to sit at home
and make it than to go to the shops and
go and buy it and come home to enjoy it
ready here we go I've got two counts of
chickpeas in there I've got one and a
half lemon squeezed it all goes in I
have two cloves of garlic straight into
my bowl
don't put full cloves of garlic or
chopped up garlic because it won't mince
property and you'll get bits of garlic
going through which isn't very pleasant
alright
the main special ingredient of homeless
is tahini tahini is just sesame seed
paste now my mom says oh my god it's
super fattening I can't eat it but I
tell you sesame seeds are full of
calcium they are so good for you so
splurge a little here unlike my mom I
won't be miserly with the tahini so a
good two to three tablespoons straight
in mix it up because sometimes the oil
separates
and that'll be easier there we go
that should be enough and salt can't do
without the salt you always need to try
the salt number I said hope chickpeas
are very bland so you need to try the
salt just before you serve and I'm also
going to add in some Greek yogurt into
this remember I did tell you it's full
of protein so we're just going to add
about a tablespoon it just makes the
homeless just that little bit more
creamier so a tablespoon a big
tablespoon of Greek yogurt and that's it
now my secret ingredient that even hacia
doesn't know is chili sauce it gives
homeless that little kick that it needs
so a tablespoon a teaspoon to a
tablespoon of chili sauce and here we go
and I hope you're counting all right
I've taken the top lid off because I'm
going to pour in olive oil now the olive
oil I'm using is from Palestine you want
to use extra virgin olive oil the cold
press is the first press that comes out
of the olives which is the best one you
don't want to cook with it because it's
really heavy but this has a nutty flavor
it's a lot fresher that's a look it's
very healthy for you so ready here we go
there you go homeless ready and enough
to feed an army
all right let's see what that looks like
excellent that's the consistency I like
I don't like it too smooth but if you
like it smoother you don't like it so
chunky then all you have to do is
process it a little bit more all right
so let's plate that up shall we
I think Ozzy has got her shoes on and if
you think about it for that portion what
it's a pound plus something and we have
made chickpeas or 25p a tin so for for a
pound in the shops right now and we have
made enough to serve not only hacia but
her whole friends group now how quick
was that so we have enough in here for
the platter
we'll drizzle on a little bit of olive
oil over the top again remembering this
isn't what's going to give you the heart
attack that's actually what's going to
keep you young the fresh olive oil and
submit' leaves just to decorate again
these are mint leaves from the garden
and the smell is incredible my
grandmother used to tell me any time you
had a stomachache she says just go in
the garden pick a few sprigs of mint and
chew on them and I'm sure you won't come
back to tell me you still have a
stomachache
a small sprinkling of sumac just to make
it look pretty and that's how quick it
is to make a plate of hummus and put a
tub in the fridge for later okay I've
got a griddle pan here that's been
heating up and into that we put some
coconut oil now we're just browning them
on the outside before we put them into
the oven because that will crisp up the
falafel so if you don't particularly
want it to be very crisp then don't
worry about this you can put them
straight into the oven and in we go
so again this is something that you can
prepare in advance and just leave it in
the fridge for a few hours if you need
to and just cook it off before iftar
time so something you don't have to
worry about at the end of the day okay
you can see it's starting to brown
around the sides so very gently just
flip them over and again you can make it
more Brown if you want to even crispier
so you can leave them up for a few more
minutes but you don't want to fiddle
with them too much because they're
getting softer as they're cooking so
this is the reason we put the oat flour
in is for it just to hold its shape and
otherwise if we didn't it would collapse
at this stage once they're all cooked
they go into a hot oven for about 30
minutes
while that's in the oven let's have a
chat with Saraya for today's healthy tip
in my family health comes first so I met
up with shreya John Muhammad a personal
trainer and health coach to answer my
questions and give me advice on various
aspects of health and wellness Salam
alaikum alaikum Salam are you enjoying
my head on bun and i'm d'lai staying
well are you getting time to do your
doors and everything yes I think I am
actually it's worked out this year
really well I think we've really tried
not to focus on food and think about
eating fresh a lot more fresh salads and
stuff is really working this year you
know what we've really enjoyed we get to
the mosque but we're also sometimes
spending our time at home and so
everyone's sitting together it's really
nice that we're breaking our are roses
together and then the kids are there we
pray the Mize together everything it's
really nice it's really great Ramadan
whether you eat at the mosque or eat at
home it's deafening there's something
about this together this because we're
all fasting so therefore we all eating
at the same time normal daily life
whoever's home first mommy I'm hungry so
we have a five o'clock shift we have a
seven o'clock shift maybe a nine o'clock
chef everybody eats at their own space
at their own convenience and so that's
the really nice thing about eating
together and you know there's so many
statistics showing that the benefits of
eating together it brings you closer to
your children there isn't a barrier of
trying to find time to speak to mom and
dad but also they do so well at school
they find the children who eat at least
five times a week with their family and
enjoying that meal actually excel at
school even teenagers get higher grades
just by eating as a family wow that's
interesting I don't know that yeah it's
you know so try it even outside of
Ramadan trying to spend time even if
it's just one meal a day it's probably
usually dinner having it together with
the family that's a really interesting
tip I do find it
do you I don't know a lot of the
problems come out at the dinner table
have you found that if I think once
you've got a little bit of food in you
you start to relax and you just open up
and this happened and this happened and
and that's where it comes well that's
where you find out what's really going
on I think it's going back to basics and
salutely well super thanks a lot sir
thank you okay for the aubergine dip
we need aubergine and what you need to
do to this once you've washed it dry it
pierce it with a knife at several
intervals cover it with olive oil and
put it in the oven for about 30 to 40
minutes to cook on a high heat so it
will char the outside and bake the
inside now I've already done that and
leave this is what it looks like
so it shrivels up once it cools down
you've got to leave it to cool to
actually get the skin off and it is so
quick that's all you have to do is peel
it like that and it goes straight into
your mixing bowl now this is another
good way of getting some vegetables into
the children and it's disguised they
don't know that the aubergine is in
there this is super healthy for those
especially from our Indian background
who suffer from anemia because aubergine
are very high in iron so just peel it
back like so
just like that and again into the bowls
we have two medium aubergines that have
been baked for about half an hour and to
this we now add in the juice of a lemon
tease a clove a large clove of garlic a
bowl full of parsley just toss it in
there like that
and about two teaspoons worth of tahini
and like I said sesame seeds are full of
calcium so if you're not able to get
calcium from milk or yogurt then just a
couple of tablespoons chew on a couple
of tablespoons of sesame seed every day
and the black sesame seed actually helps
promote hair growth all right we're add
some salt it up and that's it that's how
easy it is we're just going to add in 3
tablespoons of Greek yogurt and about a
quarter cup of olive oil
that's it even quicker than homeless
okay so today on our trip to Lebanon we
made homeless quicker than I see I could
get to the shops to get some and we made
aubergine dip and baked healthy baked
falafels so thank you for joining me
the Sphero Jessa a diff star on out of a
TV and inshallah we'll see you again
soon
Salam alaikum
you